# Git

### Pro Git [book | introductory-advanced]

[Pro Git Second Edition](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)

Comprehensive book on Git, covering everything from basic version control
concepts to advanced usage, ideal for both beginners and experienced developers.

---

### Git from the Bottom Up [article | introductory-advanced]

[Git from the Bottom Up](https://jwiegley.github.io/git-from-the-bottom-up/)

In-depth articles that explores Git’s internal data model, great for gaining a
deeper understanding of how Git actually works.

---

### MIT The Missing Semester - Version Control [lecture | introductory]

[Missing Semester - Version Control](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/2020/version-control/)

A lecture from MIT's "The Missing Semester of Your CS Education" series that
introduces Git concepts, best practices, and command-line usage for version
control.

---

### Git Katas [interactive | introductory-intermediate]

[Git Katas](https://github.com/eficode-academy/git-katas)

is a set of small, hands-on exercises you run locally to practice Git. Each kata
focuses on a concept like commits, branching, merging, or rebasing, and you
progress step by step toward more advanced topics such as reflog, bisect, and
submodules. By repeating the drills, you build confidence and fluency in
everyday Git commands and workflows.

---

### Git Exercises [interactive | introductory-intermediate]

[Git Exercises](https://gitexercises.fracz.com/)

Is an online platform where you solve Git challenges directly in the browser.
The site presents problems of increasing difficulty, covering basics through
advanced topics, and automatically checks your solutions. It’s a quick way to
practice, test your skills, and get immediate feedback without needing a local
setup.

---

### Git Tower - Basic Git Workflow [article | introductory]

[Git Tower Basic Git Workflow](https://www.git-tower.com/learn/git/ebook/en/command-line/basics/basic-workflow)

This guide walks through the basic Git workflow using the command line. It
covers key concepts like repositories, commits, staging changes, and version
control, making it a great resource for beginners.

---

### Git Official Cheat Sheet [cheatsheet | intermediate]

[Git Official Cheat Sheet](https://git-scm.com/cheat-sheet)

A concise printable reference created by the official Git project. It summarizes
everyday commands for setup, branching, staging, committing, and working with
remotes. Useful as a quick lookup when learning or refreshing Git basics.

---

### GitHub Education Cheat Sheet [cheatsheet | intermediate]

[GitHub Education Cheat Sheet](https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf)

A beginner-friendly PDF guide from GitHub Education. It presents Git concepts
alongside core commands for version control and collaboration. Designed for
students and educators, it serves as an accessible starting point to practice
essential Git workflows.

---

### Oh Shit, Git!?! [cheatsheet | intermediate]

[Oh Shit, Git!?!](https://ohshitgit.com/)

A funny and extremely useful cheatsheet for recovering from common Git mistakes,
aimed at real-world problem solving.

---

### Conventional Commits Cheatsheet [cheatsheet | intermediate]

[Conventional Commits Cheatsheet](https://gist.github.com/qoomon/5dfcdf8eec66a051ecd85625518cfd13)
This resource provides a comprehensive guide to the Conventional Commits format,
covering different commit types, formatting rules, and best practices to ensure
clear and consistent commit messages. It’s especially helpful for automating
versioning and generating changelogs.

---

### Learn Git Branching [interactive | intermediate]

[Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/)

Visual and interactive Git sandbox that teaches concepts like branching,
rebasing, and merging through practical challenges.

---
